I think one of the the other key psychological concepts that people should focus on more is the idea that you can practice something
deliberately
So you have to deliberately practice the weaknesses and make them as strong as you can
While also practicing your strengths and making those the top of your performance. Most people are too lazy to do that
They just want to practice everything or they don't want to even bother to figure out which piece is the most important
Everybody welcome to another episode of impact theory our goal with this show and company is to introduce you to the people and ideas that
Will help you actually execute on your dreams. All right
Today's guest is a former Wall Street lawyer who gave it all up to pursue a life of meaning
Following his love for learning instead of chasing money
He co-founded a podcast and Academy called the art of charm back in
2006 long before podcasting and online courses were a thing and he methodically built it into a
seven-figure business and one of the most dominant podcasts on iTunes
Before leaving to start something new his interview show received more than 4 million downloads per month and his new podcast
Which he just started from scratch recently has already received more than a million downloads in the first three weeks alone
And it's no surprise giving how hard this guy works and how damn interesting he is
He speaks five languages including Mandarin Chinese and Serbian. He used to run a business giving tours of North Korea
He's been kidnapped twice on two different continents and in high school
He was an exchange student in the former Soviet stronghold of East
Germany his company and interests have led him to study some of the most successful people in the world
And from that he's created a playbook on social dynamics that has made him one of the most sought-after speakers and coaches in the world
His work has been presented in Silicon Valley at mega companies such as Google Apple
Twitter and Square and he's given talks on security social engineering and psychology at places such as blackhat
Def Con and Harvard Business School
Additionally Forbes named him one of the 50 best relationship builders
Anywhere and heat magazine paralleled him to one of the best interviewers in modern era
so
Please help me in welcoming the former phone hacker. And now host of the Jordan Harbinger show Jordan Harbinger.
I am stoked to have you on the show dude, you are the master of introductions
I would if I didn't know who you were introducing, I would have been very excited to hear from that person that person
Yeah, they're gonna be here today. Oh good. I'll stick around exciting what's crazy is
How many weird things you've done? Yeah, like the the North Korea, that, in my notes
I literally wrote "what the fuck" like I had to go back and like listen to that again
I'm like he actually gave tours in North Korea. How does one end up giving tours in North Korea?
That's what my mom wanted to know, too
Of course. Wait, how does that happen?
are you sure this is allowed a long time ago when I was in law school a
Friend of mine kept telling me about Turkmenistan and how weird this place was and how they had this crazy dictator
that was renaming the calendar months and everything and
Built an ice palace in the middle of the desert and I thought what a weird guy. So that's for sure interesting
But the thing I really want to know is what makes you when your friend goes. Oh, there's an even crazier dictator. What?
Yes, you've moved towards that. That's a good question
I think anything that's really esoteric or forbidden was always appealing to me when I was a kid. So you mentioned former phone hacker
Totally great reference because that was me when I was a kid
Opening up those green boxes on the side of the road where you needed a special wrench to get it and I thought they don't
Want people to open this you need a special wrench?
I'm gonna figure out how to open this and I open it and there's all these little screws with wires attached to him and
I see the lineman with his little orange handset clip and alligator clips on there and I went and got
one of those things and
Started to play with it in the green box and I was listening to people's phone calls when I was 13
And I thought this is something I'm not supposed to do that
Theoretically doesn't hurt anyone. So I like that and
now as an adult
I realized that I still have that
bit of code that says people kind of don't want you to do that and I go
Oh well in that case, it's more appealing
So it's a little bit of a rebellious streak
But I'm more interested to learn wipe people are trying to keep something a secret
Then I am about breaking the rule itself if that makes sense, totally
So this whole like lifeless ordinary thing, is that something that you cultivate?
Intentionally like so I know the story you're a lawyer on Wall Street at the time of the collapse, and so
It there was a natural out if you wanted to take it
But I don't feel like you took it because there was a natural out it would have been easy enough for you to do something
That was still centered around lobby
You don't you start something that at the time would have been so beyond counterintuitive like in 2006, I'd listened to exactly zero podcast
Yeah, I don't even know if I'd ever heard the word podcast
I don't think people listening today really understand like it didn't really exist back then no
So, how did you.. Why did you get into that?
Right, so in college, I had to outwork everyone which is easy because in college everyone's just drinking partying
So I out worked everyone that was my competitive advantage
But then I got to Wall Street and everyone was really hardworking and really smart and I thought okay
We can all work 20 hours a day seven days a week
How do I make myself smarter in a timeframe that's short enough for me not to get fired because I had hard core imposter syndrome
Whereas like they're gonna figure out I don't belong here
I'm gonna get fired then I'm gonna be out of luck
And I have all this debt from law school. So I decided to work on this sort of secret third path
which well
Actually, I wanted to work from home so that nobody could see how much I didn't belong at this Wall Street firm
There was a partner that always worked from home
And eventually I caught up with him and I said "hey you're never in the office. Do you just work from home a lot?"
He actually explained well sometimes but I usually get business
I generate the business for the firm by creating and maintaining relationships and that was really interesting to me
So I asked him how that was done and he explained
Look, I'm friends with these people and they throw us deals and I don't even worry about my billable hours
I just bring in deals and get Commission based on that so I dedicated my life to learning how to create maintain
Relationships, because that was my only hope that was my secret third path not outwork everyone
I was already working as hard as I could not try to make myself smarter in some way and
you're dealing with real natural talent and hard work with some of these other people that were at my level, but
Nobody was thinking about networking in relationships. We all thought well we stay here long enough
We put our time in dot dot dot senior associate or partner Country Club network
That's how that worked in my head at age 25
That's not how that works. You build that network the entire time
Deliberately, ideally and then you have those relationships
That are valued enough to make you a partner or get you to the top of the law game or any game
So I decided to focus on that thinking if I work on this
I'll probably have five years before any of my
Colleagues even think about this as a skill set and that time advantage will allow me to master the networking and relationship development skill set
That I need to not get fired. Maybe make partner stay at the top of the game
So I focused on that
Skill set and that was what we were talking about at
Bars, and at meetings and things like that and other people wanted to learn these skills too because they started noticing
Some of the rewards that were coming from it. I would never wait in line at a bar
I would never pay for any food or drinks when I went out
I always seemed to know everyone I was with different friends all the time
So bartenders doormen everybody knew who I was and that
Was appealing to younger guys, and girls for that matter, back in college
But it was really useful in the working world
So when I finally started to teach these skills on the side
I was having the same conversation every
night six nights a week because I was going out trying to work on these skills and I started burning those conversations to CDs and
Eventually a friend of mine said, you know
You might not have to carry a pocket full of crappy burned at home CDs if we can figure out how to distribute these
mp3 files in another way
there was no way to do that back then and then we found out about
Podcasting and at the time there were 800 shows in iTunes
There are about 350-400,000 now and that's what we did
we started uploading our conversations to a server and listing them in iTunes and
The first couple days we had 24 downloads and couple of them were from South Africa and that's when the light bulb went off that
there's something here that
Nobody's really paying attention to if I can have a conversation
with my friend in his basement or living room and that
Can go to South Africa an hour later and someone can email us and say hey, I tried this and it worked
We have a new concept here. Remember YouTube did not exist. I think it was like video Wiz or something, right?
so it was like this small niche nerd community of people that knew about podcasting and
That's what we started building from there, and we just thought this isn't a business. It's a hobby
we went on with our lives and
Then one day we checked our numbers months and months or years later and we went this is a real snowball
There's really an audience here. Now was that when you were still at the law firm or yes?
yeah, I was working at the law firm and then
actually sort of moonlighting because a
Couple friends of mine said hey, I'm doing this show on Sirius XM satellite radio a couple blocks from your office
I don't want to drive up and make it because there's too much traffic
Can you just do my slot on the show is the guest?
So I show up to Sirius XM satellite radio and I go hey
I'm here to talk about someone else's book and I get up there and they're like you didn't write the book No
Well, we don't have a guest. What can you talk about body language persuasion influence networking?
They said great you're on in seven minutes go down that hallway. See you later!
And we went down the hall set in did the did the show and they said you guys did a decent job
Have you done this before?
Well, we have this thing called a podcast and the station manager just happened to be listening to that episode of the show
And he started listening to our podcast and when I emailed him two weeks later he goes
I love this thing you're doing in your basement
If only you actually had a studio and weren't just talking with a furnace next to you and like noises
so he gave us our own show on Sirius XM satellite radio just to see if we could do it and that's how
The show really started to launch and when did you start thinking about it as a business because I can't think of anything
Sort of less likely to turn into a business when you're peeling out of your law career
than that
Yeah, that's a good question
the business hobbies shift
started to happen
Not because we went alright, there's an audience here. We got to monetize it. That's what people do now
That are smart and think ahead we were not those people
what we had was a bunch of free content on the podcast and people started writing in and saying hey, you know
I'm having trouble applying some of this stuff
Can I call you and I thought this is a great way to not have any free time ever
So I said sure but I'm gonna have to charge for it because I don't want to just do free coaching all the time
So this guy said great I'm gonna give you two grand. Can you give me like 20 hours of coaching for that or ten?
And I said sure no problem. What do you do for a living? And he said I'm a mortgage banker. I
Really want to teach this stuff to my team
So he just kept keeping us on retainer and I thought there's real money here and then him and another friend
we're doing this phone coaching with me during the summer at Law School and
Another guy said I just want to come and see you do this stuff and I said sure fine he goes
Why don't I give you ... five grand and I'll stay with you for a week? And I thought that's creepy, right?
That's a little creepy you want to live with me for a week, and he goes look
I'm a normal guy
We can talk on the phone for a while so that you know that I'm not a weirdo
but I know that if I learn from you in person I
Will figure this stuff out and I thought that's probably a good way to learn this stuff
So that was our first client he flew in lived with us for a week
basically paid the rent on our Manhattan apartment for a minute and
He just ended up being our first
training client and
That was when we went we'll wait a second if people are willing to do this and there's more than one
This could be a business where the business was driven by the demand for the service and the coaching and the knowledge
It was not okay
We're gonna be life coaches and we're gonna figure out this curriculum and then start cramming it in people's face
It was the opposite it was here's all this free stuff
If you can use it cool and that became the foundation of the business
You said growing up that you were painfully shy. Yes, did you use tactics and techniques to get out of that? And is that
Sort of what becomes your teaching or how did you get out of that?
- Great question.
Yes. I definitely use tactics and techniques to get out of that and
And in the beginning you feel like you're faking it, right you feel like all this body language stuff
you're just sort of going through the motions and to an extent you are but once people start treating you differently because you're
Open positive confident or at least that's your first impression
You start to realize oh, I'm not being rejected by people at first glance
You know
I'm sitting up and I've got a smile on my face and I feel good about what I'm doing and
You start getting attention from people that normally you would think. Oh, I didn't realize this woman
Wanted to date me or this person. wanted to hang out you really
Don't have yourself esteem matching up with the way people are perceiving you and so there's one way to sort of
Fix that right. And that's you get pulled in one direction
So if you think you're really great, but people treat you poorly your self-esteem drops, right and you eventually meet that expectation
but if your self-esteem is sort of shaky like mine was and you're painfully shy but people start treating you like
You're upright confident positive friendly outgoing you get pulled in that direction
instead and that
Became a core
Concept of what I was teaching because I realized wait a minute
I don't like fake it till you make it but in some respects this really worked for me because I wasn't lying to anybody
I was just acting a little bit more confident than I was and then people went oh
He's comfortable and fun and friendly and I grew into that so I had a core level identity shift
Into who I was and sure enough people treated me in
That way and I started to become that way because I realized I had nothing to lose
So and nothing to fear more importantly, so yeah
I really used those techniques at first and they were very robotic and then eventually I realized I can take off the
Scaffolding because I'd become the person who I had been trying to be
Because you're not adding a veneer of falsity to you're not telling fake stories or acting cool or something like that
You're really just being more confident in just for a few moments while people make that first impression of you
They start to treat you differently and you start to act into that and it happens. Naturally. You don't have to force it
I love the concept that you have about every time you walk through a doorway the doorway concept and
what I love about it is that basically all of this stuff can be practice and once you practice it then it becomes
natural and there's this quote from Bruce Lee which I've always loved which is I
I kick until I don't think kick. I just kick. So what is the doorway principle? And why is it so powerful?
the doorway drill is really potent because
what this does is it fixes body language in a way that creates a different kind of first impression, so
Essentially, we're making people more confident with a pack of post-it notes. So the way that this works is
We know our first impressions are made non-verbally and if you don't believe me if you're not sure if this is true
what you need to do is go walk down the street walk to through them all and your mind will be
Making these little judgments about someone tall person. Scary person cute person small child in fun person. You're making these judgments
Subconsciously all the time, but this is evolved behavior. It doesn't mean you're
Prejudiced or something like that. This is just what your brain does but what that means is that your first impression is made
Non-verbally those people don't have to talk or tell you something clever
Or tell you something scary for you to make that judgment about them. You just feel it
So the doorway drill is potent because if we walk through a doorway
Which we do hundreds of times a week dozens and dozens of times a day
Even if you're just seated in your office, if we reset our body language our nonverbal communication to create a positive first impression
Then we don't have to think about it much anymore because the problem is if you say all right
Sit up straight have upright open confident positive body language
Then I go into a meeting or a networking event
And this first thing that happens is I reset to my defaults computer mode, right because I'm not thinking about it anymore
It's a conscious shift in my body language that I will lose control of. So we have to delegate or relegate that
set of nonverbals to a
subconscious process and the way to do that is
to practice it and the way to practice it is to remember to practice it in the way to remember to practice it is to
Do it every time you walk through a doorway. So whenever you walk through a doorway
Stand up straight shoulders back chest up chin up smile on your face, and you don't have to Superman it you'll look
You'll look awkward and fake. But if you just have open upright confident positive body language every time you walk through that door
You will start to do this
habitually the problem is we tell you this and
the first thing you do is you walk through a door and you forget it instantly because you learned it on impact Theory along with
The million other things and it goes right out the window. So take a pack of post-it notes these little tiny ones
you don't have to write anything on it stick them up at eye level in the doorframe or in the doorway of
Your office your home wherever you can get away with it. And when you see that you're gonna go why is there a post-it?
Oh right doorway drill up right open positive confident body language now
That over time weeks months whatever it takes you will start to do that every time you walk through a doorway
the beautiful part of this is our
First impressions are often made as soon as people see us
And as soon as they see us is usually when we walk into a room through a doorway
So every time if we're resetting our body language every time we walk through a doorway
We're creating a positive nonverbal first impression every time we enter a room and then we don't have to think about it anymore
So we can stay present in
Conversations we can get through what we need to get through in a conversational agenda
If we have one we can network and meet people and have it look natural and we don't have to think all right
Oh shoot. You were slouching stand up straight. Oh crap. What was Tom saying? I forgot. Oh no now he knows that I'm lost
Wait a second. I'm slouching again. That's what we're trying to avoid. We just want to make sure our nonverbal first
Impression is good when people start treating us differently because of that first impression, then we start to act differently and we start to become
Essentially a different more confident person because of the way that other people treat us because the way other people treat us
Informs the way we feel about ourselves and then we don't have to fake it anymore. We don't have to try hard
We don't have to put on airs, you know respect me. We don't have to do that anymore
We don't have to do that. Now. You said one of the hallmarks of the Jordan Harbinger show is
Takeaways acts, actionable items that people can do and actually implement in their lives
What are some other psychological principles that you think people are unaware of that have that real actionable core?
Great, so yeah
One thing I like to do on the show every show has worksheets so that people can sort of fill out
what they've learned because I believe that
Revision and review. I mean look, I'm a nerd like many many people who are listening or watching
I spent way too much time in school
So I like to review these things
But I will tell you I think one of the the other key psychological
Concepts that people should focus on more is not just nonverbal persuasion or communication and things like this
But the idea that you can practice something
deliberately
So you have to deliberately practice the weaknesses and make them as strong as you can
While also practicing your strengths and making those the top of your performance. Most people are too lazy to do that
They just want to practice everything or they don't want to even bother to figure out which piece is the most important.
I'm super fanatical about that and I think that that's something that people really
overlook is in this debate about you know
Do I focus on my strengths or do I focus on my weaknesses and hearing you talk and having done all the research?
One thing that I will say you have an extraordinary ability to learn regardless of what the topic is
And I find that very interesting
walk me through like how have you learned five languages and not easy languages like Serbian and
Mandarin Chinese like that's insane
so
How do you like what is that process?
So I'm a big fan of immersion. What's funny is people go? Oh, you must have a knack for languages
I'm not good at languages and so a question
I will always ask people who think that they're not good at something is
How they know that they're not good at it
and usually the answer has to do with the environment that they learn in or the
Set up their learning process and very rarely with their actual talents. So people will say, oh, I'm not good at languages
How do you know well I took French in high school and I didn't do well
Well, I took French in high school and French was my worst subject every language
I took in middle school in high school was terrible
I took languages in college a little bit and I was much better at it
but I'll tell you I got really good at languages because when I was a senior in high school
I moved to Germany as a next student and I got placed in East Germany
Where they didn't speak English very well and they learned Russian growing up instead of English
So I was surrounded by German the whole time and I thought I'm in trouble
I was told everybody kind of speaks English and I could get by and I knew I was gonna have to learn some German
But I had no idea that it was gonna be the basis for me making friends at all getting by at all
So I started to realize that German was really hard surprise
and I took some German classes and I learned a little tiny bit and
not much and my host parents started to get worried because I wasn't really talking and
Then one day my host father took me out for a beer and he goes look
You got to learn German because no one can relate to you and you're not getting along with other people because they just see you
as this weird robotic American guy and then we had another beer and I said
I just feel lonely and homesick and all this stuff and he goes but German is not that hard we can teach you and
Then he started teaching me a little
Here and there and this is three or four months in and then I had another beer and suddenly I could speak German
And he went wait a minute. You can speak a lot more German than you let on and I just realized at that moment
I was afraid of making mistakes
I didn't know how much I knew and that since I'd been immersed in the language for so long
I actually understood a lot more than I thought. So at that moment, I realized I can learn this
I just need a different type of learning environment
I don't learn well by memorizing a verb table that a French teacher gave me and said quiz on Friday
I learned well by watching a TV
hanging out with a bunch of kids my own age and
Having them yell things at each other and I hear that over and over and I remembered that that's actually how humans learn language in
general and I realized
Immersion is the way to do it
Study with a coach study with a teacher do not try to self teach a lot of people self teach
It can be great. But you really learn best with a coach for?
Anything at all? I have interview and broadcast coaches that teach us on the Jordan Harbinger show
I hire and if you can't find a coach
Find a coach anyway, you know find someone on CNN and tweet at them and say can I hire you to teach me interview skills?
Someone will eventually respond to you and that's how I find these types of people
So I'll immerse myself in something to the point where I can
Really get any higher on my own and then I will find a coach
Generally to take me to the next level and even that's a mistake honestly some of that is ego
I recommend finding a coach as early as you can
You should find a coach before you try to do anything because otherwise you're just unlearning bad habits that you've self taught
I want to go back to some of these just said which is really really interesting to
Basically stalk somebody until you get them to agree to be your coach. Sure
What does that process look like and and I want to put it in context of when?
Forbes magazine says that you're one of the best relationship builders
Anywhere like dude, I will I will just tell everybody right now. How true this is
out of nowhere
He reaches out to me and was just like hey been watching your show. I think it's fantastic
Let me know how I can help.
- Did I do that?
- Yes
I'm glad I follow my own advice. I was like, whoa, like Jorgen Hart Harbinger is like just reach out to me. This is crazy and
You were like. Oh, I think this person be a good guest this person and we're like, dude
we've been trying to get them we can't get them and you were like, oh
let me make an intro and then all of a sudden like
Like this huge cascade of guests coming on me getting on other people's podcast. It was huge. And I've said
Privately a thousand times and this is the God's honest truth, dude
nobody outside of this company has had a bigger impact on this company than you
- Really? Wow!
- from out of nowhere and
Your whole thing about you know, give without any expectation of anything in return. You've never asked me for anything ever
I
Was just totally totally blown away. So
Leveraging like that ability to reach out in a pretty smooth way
Like how do cuz I know people watching this right now, they reach out really clumsily
so
How can they reach out in an intelligent fashion?
To get a hold of somebody that can really be a meaningful mentor a teacher whatever and actually get a yes.
Yeah, this is a topic that's very near and dear to my heart as well because I do remember reaching out to you
I didn't I'm glad to hear I was that impactful and helpful. That's always nice to hear
What people do wrong when they reach out is they go alright,
Hey Tom, love your show. You should have me on it because I have a new book and you're like
Oh one of these right? I mean you must get that a
hundred times a day
I know you do because I do all the time and I don't usually mind that but it doesn't work nearly as well
As a friend reaching out and saying hey, I'm watching a book in a few months would love to do the show also
Here's a bunch of other things happening. The reason this is important is
most people don't
build these relationships
Before they need them and these are the same people that would they obviously have a spare tire in the trunk of their car
So if they get a flat on the highway
They're taken care of but if they want to build a relationship
They're not thinking about digging that well before they're thirsty
So they're only looking at what help they need when they need it and that is a huge mistake
You have to dig the well before you're thirsty and you have to give without the attachment to getting something in return
so when people want to reach out
Stop thinking about what's in it for you
Start thinking about only what's in it for other people and if you don't worry about what's in it for you
You will find opportunities that come later down the line and to sort of illustrate this
when I moved to LA I had a toothache and it started to get more and more painful and it
Really was starting to just dig into my brain. I couldn't think I didn't have a car I moved from New York
This is pre uber I didn't have dental insurance cuz I was 27 and you know
Who cares about your teeth right you think about those later? Yeah, I'll get new ones
And so I started to desperately call dentists and they were like look
I don't take new patients or I can see you in a week. Go to the ER if you have a toothache
And I'm thinking a week. I haven't slept, you know, this thing is killing me. So I post it on Facebook
And obviously I didn't have my privacy settings set correctly because of random stranger
Filled in the comment and said my aunt's a dentist near you
Do you want me to give her a call and I said sure yeah
So I went to his aunt the next morning before they officially opened got that thing drilled the hell out
Got it filled. She didn't overcharge me. I send this guy message. Thank you so much. He goes, no problem, man
I don't know what you do
I heard you have some show that my friend likes, but I'm glad you got your tooth taken care
And I said, let me know if there's anything I can do
He said well, I'm a graphic designer, but I'm working at a cafe right now as a barista
I would love to just not make another cup of coffee again, and I said well, I don't have any work for you
But I'll keep my ear to the ground. He said whatever you can do. No problem
I don't expect you to give me a job. Four days later another entrepreneur friend of mine
She writes me and says my web guys are blowing it. I keep firing them who can create good branding for me
I said I've never worked with this guy but here's a portfolio. He's a nice person
That's really all I can say. That guy got a full-time job as far as I know still works there years later
designing websites and templates and themes and branding for this woman's company because he helped me find a dentist on
Facebook so if he'd been thinking, how do I get a job?
He would never have made that introduction to a dentist because there the connection the nexus is unclear the opportunity lie over the horizon
But since he was helping without the attachment or expectation of anything in return
He ended up finding an opportunity through me that I didn't know about and that he didn't know about
But you won't find those unless you were constantly reaching out digging the well before you're thirsty and giving without that
Expectation of anything in return and last but not least
People keep score now. And this is bad. Do not keep score and what I mean by that is if you
Interview someone and then you help them you drive them to the airport
They don't owe you anything
But people in our heads we create these covert contracts and the reason they're called covert contracts is because it exists in my head
But it doesn't exist in yours
So we've got this weird agreement where I Drive it at the airport and then I pick you up and I Drive you again
I pick you up and you're like hey Jordan such a good friend. He's always got you know, he's always got time for me
He wakes up early so he doesn't mind driving me to the airport for my super early flights and in my head I go
One day I'm gonna make Tom
have me on his show and I'm gonna sell my magical weight loss formula and
Then one day I pitched this to you and you go. Oh not totally a fit from what we're doing here an impact Theory
I'll help you in other ways if I can and then in my head I go you son of a bitch, right?
I'm mad at you now because you broke the deal that I created in my head
You broke the comp the contract the covert contract. So I'm starting to be passive-aggressive. I'm angry with you
I can't change my behavior. Even if it's a little subconscious. I'm a little bit colder towards you and our friendship gradually dies
Why did this happen you?
Didn't do anything wrong
I created an agreement in my head where you started to owe me something and you didn't reciprocate and that made me angry
People do this. We do this subconsciously
We think other people owe us if someone
Creates opportunities for you you introduce them to a bunch of people you help them out a lot
That's it. There's no agreement to reciprocate now
If someone helps you you should reciprocate what you can if someone doesn't reciprocate towards you though
Do not keep score because you are poisoning all of the relationships that you start
Because you don't know how that person might be able to help you in the future
You don't want to create a bad reputation for yourself and you will spend years thinking this person
There are one-sided friend. They're not a friend
This person didn't do this thing for me and years later down the line
You just have no idea what could have been because you're poisoning all of your own relationships
so the rules are dig the well before you're thirsty, give without the expectation or attachment of getting anything in return and
Do not keep score. And if you do those three things as a matter of habit throughout the next
Rest of your life, in fact, you will have so much opportunity coming into your life
You won't have you want to know what to do with yourself, you know?
I really hope people listen to that and in your life right now is such a reflection of that as you're reinventing
Yourself and your brand it's been incredible and I want to talk about that
Reinvention you've been crazy like raw and real and vulnerable about it
So I'm not so interested in the like what happened to the company to necessitate the reinvention
But how do you conceptualize it? And how do you face those fears?
so when I left the art of charm and
Suddenly found myself. What I thought was out in the cold. I
actually was in a
Position than I thought because I had actually been following my own advice
Dig the well before you're thirsty give without the expectation of anything in return
So when I left the art of charm
I actually took the vast majority of the team with me not in some Jerry Maguire moment
But in a different type of situation everyone always goes Jerry Maguire, not quite
Unless Rene Zellweger is my producer Jason who doesn't exactly fit fit that mold
But I left and I went okay guys and girls what are we gonna do right now?
And the answer from the team unanimously was rebuild
we already know we want to do we just have to start over and I thought
Easy for you to say I've been doing the other show for 11 years. I built this business over 11 years now
I've got to start over. This is terrible. What do I do?
And so I had a couple of choices early on one was don't tell anyone what happened
make sure that your pride and ego are intact and try to do this with your team or by yourself and
It's gonna take five plus years because now I know what I'm doing, it won't take 11 years
Maybe it'll take a mere half decade. The other option was you've built a network over 11 years
You've got a lot of friends. You've got a lot of people that want to support you
Spread the message about what happened. Not in a look what happened to me. It's so sad kind of way
But in a here's my little predicament right now
What can what ideas would you have and most of the people that I had reached out to who have any sort of?
Platform or anything. We're like, I want to help you. Get back on your feet with the Jordan Harbinger show
What can we do to make this happen? And so I reached out to dozens and dozens of people that I knew would?
I'll be honest at first it was like if people start rejecting me
I'm gonna feel pretty damn bad about this right it's gonna take its gonna knock me down even further
So I picked people like yourself that I knew wouldn't be like you're dead to me click, right?
So I found a bunch of people that I consider real friends
and I've reached out to those people yourself included and I went here's what's going on and
You've been through similar stuff, too
And so you empathized of course
But also you're in a great position to say like actually we'd love to make this conversation happen. And so
Once the initial first few people had said let's do this. My confidence was bolstered
I had a lot of great mentorship from
People on my network like Norm Pat is who owns PodcastOne said don't skip a beat do your own show forget about the past?
Just get back on your feet. But if you've got a strong network around you you're good. No, it's incredible. I love that
You said that it's not just because Jordan is an incredible interviewer
But I'll say that is part of the equation and how do you think about the very notion of?
Going into a crowded arena or whatever having to start over
How do you think about being great, how are you approaching your interviews? Sure
so the one thing that I know that you and I do
Probably more than other interviewers
At least the ones I've spoken to is we do more homework than anyone whenever I interview somebody
I always look for the Tom Bilyeu
Interview because I know that you read the book you looked at all the videos
You had people make sure that they weren't on hashtag me too somewhere
Right like you did all the homework for that person
and
I know that your interview is gonna be really good and I too will read the book watch the videos and do everything and I
Know that we're gonna be able to pull these things out, but the question is that it's a crowded arena
How are we gonna be great?
well
If I'm doing exactly what you're doing, then are either of us great, or am I just copying you?
So what what I will do is I will always outwork
The next guy and I will do my own
I'll put my own angle on everything just like you do with this like you've got this incredible production
You've got these incredible interviews. They're always enthusiastic. They're always inspirational your crew around you is is second to none
What me and my team do is strive for
similar quality
Except I will always go for let's say practicals and so I put my own look like unique spin on that
You've talked pretty openly about some of the anxiety that you've gone through and rebooting the show and the uncertainty
Financially that comes with building the business from scratch
What techniques have you used actually overcome the anxiety?
- I would love to say
Oh, yeah, I had all this anxiety and then I started using this app and meditating and everything was fine
That is not what happened. Not at all. What happened was? Yeah
It was I went from alright, we've got this nice multi seven-figure business
The shows really grace got this huge audience - okie dokie. How are we gonna figure out what to do luckily?
I am a saver. I plan well financially and I I think that that is underrated
because
when you have no debt when you have a
backup
Set up six months or a year of finances
Even if you have to downgrade your lifestyle a little bit the level of freedom that you have is enormous
Because when I started asking friends what to do they want. Oh, man, you need to get income you need to do all-in
There's a list of projects they came up with that are all
Distractions from rebuilding the Jordan Harbinger show into what it needs to be
It's like you got to go on a speaking tour and you need to write a product and you need to start selling ebooks online
You need to do that. That would have been fine
I would have had to do that if I were going broke in a month
But I wasn't because I had planned for in inevitable situations such as this
So instead I'm able to spend the next year and change
focusing on what's really gonna matter in five years and not trying to figure out how to keep the lights on and
Keep people paid and keep myself in with a roof over my head
so I think it's really important to make sure that you
It sounds cliche as I suppose again
But if you dig the well before you're thirsty financially you'll be ok later as well
if
you just assume everything is gonna work out or that you can figure out how to get income when you need it because many of
Us are crafty and smart. That's fine, but I don't want to spend time trying to make
Short-term money when I have a long-term goal
So first of all plan ahead if you find yourself unable to do so because you're in this situation now
And you did not plan ahead. Okay, all is not lost
What I would say is the anxiety that I had that I still have
Sometimes you have to zoom out far enough on the timeline and that sort of cures all and here's what I mean by that
Effective I guess is what people would call it
What I've been doing is zooming out far enough on the time line in thinking. Okay, is this gonna matter in a week?
Maybe is it gonna matter in a month?
Probably not. It's hard to take comfort in that when that week. You feel crushed that in a year
You're gonna feel better
But if you put yourself in that situation where you're zooming out far enough on the timeline your own timeline
You realize huh? Has anyone ever stolen from me before sure what are they doing now? Doesn't matter how often you think about it
Never how did you feel in that moment? Pretty much like you do now, okay
So that I have been through things like this before. Yeah, and you survived. Well, not only that
Thrived great, but I still feel bad right now. You're allowed to just realize that every second you spend feeling
sorry for yourself is a total waste of time and
Set a timer if you need to on your fancy Apple watch and give yourself time to have your temper tantrum
Call your mom and cry
go take a nap whatever you need to do and then put your pants back on your britches back up and
Get back to work. The one thing that made me feel better
Was getting back to work because I had all this anxiety
Which was energy I had that I didn't know what to do with I
Was running around like a chicken with my head cut off and I spent a lot of it just whining or being like I can't
Do this. I don't know how to do this. None of that was helpful
But when I called my team and called my network my podcast network and they said don't skip a beat
Just get back to work and produce the Jordan Harbinger show
Stop whining about what happened to your last one and your last business when I got back in the studio
And I started moving forward again. I realized a
Lot of the anxiety was this energy had no place to go
It was like a blender that you left the top off of and it's shooting all over your kitchen. I
Needed to focus this in one direction. And so when I focused that energy into producing a great show
rebuilding my business
I started to feel better again because if you're doing everything you freakin can to get back on your feet
Then when you go to bed at night, you don't think how am I gonna do this?
You realize you're gonna do this one day at a time one step at a time one brick at a time
Along those lines you wrote a really cool article recently and the key takeaway for me was
Action and suffering. Yes. I thought that was really cool. That was an accidental find right?
I didn't think I've got to take action and end the suffering. I've got to direct my energy in one direction
It was kind of like, okay
Am I gonna try to sleep all day or be depressed or be angry or am I just gonna get back to work?
that that was my choice at the end and
I feel like a lot of us have those choices the action ended the suffering in many ways
But I didn't expect that to be the result
I really thought I was just gonna distract myself and that was the initial plan just distract yourself with work
But what I didn't realize was the work wasn't just going to distract me
it was gonna take all of that drama and pack it into a neat little ball put it in a drawer and not worry about
it anymore because I had a bigger mission and
Part of that was the audience the Jordan Harbinger Show audience. There were people going where's the show and
the answer was it's it's on the way I didn't miss one episode of
The show when I left the art of charm it ended on a Thursday
I would have had to release an episode on Tuesday
But I wasn't a part of the company anymore. The first episode of the Jordan Harbinger show came out that following Tuesday
- Wow
I called a friend Mark Geragos, who's was Michael Jackson's lawyer and stuff
And I said, what do you do on a Saturday? And he said I'm really busy because I'm a really a
Million clients and I said great 11:00 a.m. Works fine for me. Okay, and he did the show and we launched it right then and
People who were with us early went. Oh my gosh
You don't even have a website and I said it's coming. But the first episode of the show is out
Action ends suffering not gonna be universally true for every type of suffering
It might only alleviate some of it but we see this pattern in people. We see the person who's
Lost a child in a shooting or something and is now speaking about it
We see people who have undergone great tragedy and now run a charity that helps people who've been victims of similar
Situations or of different situations that action helps them
Eliminate or mitigate their suffering and so this was an accidental discovery
For me so I can't take credit for it. But what I can say is if you find that you are suffering right now
Try taking action instead of taking a bath in that suffering and I know it's easier said that done trust me
I know that but trust me that this works as well
so powerful
All right before I asked my last question tell these guys where they can find you and the new show
Sure. Sure
so
You are either watching this or listening to a podcast version right now search for the Jordan Harbinger show in your podcast app or iTunes
we do have some clips that take place in the YouTube sphere but
Really?
I would love if people would find me and listen to the show because I will make damn sure that every minute of your time
Your ear your ear balls your share of ear, whatever we want to call that has been earned
I will earn every moment of your attention on the Jordan Harbinger show. That is my promise to you
So give us a shot and let me know what you think
Yeah, and I will just say that I think it's even better than what you were doing on the art of charm
I think you broaden things out a lot more. I think the interviews are more deft
Really I'm super stoked on this thing. It's absolutely fantastic. Thank you, brother. All right
My final question is what's the impact that you want to have on the world?
I want to make sure that people get tools to improve their lives on a regular basis that they can improve
incrementally every single time they listen, so
every episode of the show you learn something you put it in you like those little
one-piece Legos those little 1es you just stack them up and eventually if you get enough of those you could build a castle that
Is what I'm trying to deliver because I think that as busy as people are
Even though the smartest of us are always trying to learn it's hard to read a book or two every week
It's hard
to make sure we're moving forward and learning when we're trying to build our own business or keep a career or manage a family so
I want to deliver this knowledge and this value in a way that people can get at the gym in the car, etc
And then take those little tiny one-piece Legos and after a couple of months or a couple years they go. I
Built a freaking castle. Thank you
That is what I want to do is make it bite-sized enough that anyone and everyone can do it in makes their life better
Very similar to what you're doing here. I think thank you man
Great answer. Thank you so much for being on the Thursday
All right, guys, I'm telling you. There's a reason he's considered the godfather of podcasting
This guy takes greatness to a whole new level and I'm telling you that behind the scenes
Everything that he's talking about on camera and on the podcast he's doing in real life
I cannot emphasize enough how excited I was to bring him on the show because I
Wanted to do something nice for him because he had done so much for me. So not only did
I think he'd be an amazing guest but that sense of really building real friendships nurturing them making sure that they're
Blossoming of their own accord and never literally you can feel it and everything he does
He's never worrying about what the payoff is gonna be and that is how you get a payoff
and you know me I'm a big believer in holding to competing ideas in your head and
He is the master at this he knows that that's a good strategy
he knows that and yet he can approach you with such authenticity and
Give you those Legos whether those Legos are a piece of information whether they are a connection
He is doing that better than
Anyone, I think I've ever met in my entire
Life it is absolutely extraordinary. There is much for me to learn from this man
He is
Whenever possible one of the first videos I go to research somebody that we have coming on the show because he gets absolutely amazing stuff
go watch his show subscribe to the Jordan Harbinger show and
Look at how he approached his life without a sense of scarcity
He's the dominant force and yet he reached out to me to find out how he could help that is so beautiful. And so
Inspiring and it's just incredible and as something I think that we can all learn
So if you haven't already be sure to subscribe and until next time my friends be legendary. Take care
Everybody thank you so much for watching and being a part of this community
if you haven't already be sure to subscribe you're gonna get weekly videos on building a growth mindset cultivating grit and
Unlocking your full potential